In Donkey Kong Country, Cranky Kong, is the original Donkey Kong.
Super Mario Bros. 2 US is actually a reskin of Japanese game called Doki Doki Panic.
In Street Fighter 2 the boxer character is named M. Bison. The character with the mask and claw is Balrog, and the final boss is named Vega. These names were swapped around for the US release due to concerns about being sued by Mike Tyson over the boxer character.
In The Legend of Zelda, if you enter "Zelda" as a filename, you can play the 2nd Quest.
In The Legend of Zelda, "10th Enemy Has The Bomb" refers to the mechanic of forcing a bomb by killing 10 enemies in a row without taking a hit.
The difficult mode in Mega Man 2 is the default mode in Japan.
Soda Popinski's original name in the arcade was Vodka Drunkenski.
The Super Mario Bros. movie was the first movie based on a video game.
Shigeru Miyamoto originally wanted to have Mario riding a dinosaur, but was unable to because of limitation of the NES.
The Legend of Zelda title music was composed overnight in a rush, due to not having the rights to the original music.
Mortal Kombat on the Sega Genesis had a hidden code to allow the blood and fatalities. The programmers of the game made the code ABACABB in tribute to the band Genesis' album of the same name.
The Sunsoft classic NES game, Journey to Silius, was originally supposed to be a Terminator video game, but Sunsoft lost the license before they were able to release the game.
The Legend of Zelda is impossible.
The Mortal Kombat character Noob Saibot is an amalgamation of the names of the creators, Ed Boon and John Tobias spelled backwards.
Adventure Island on NES started out as a port of Wonder Boy. Hudson obtained the rights to port the game from the developer who had, unbeknownst to Hudson, sold the rights for the Wonder Boy series to Sega, resulting in Hudson's port rights being null. Hudson then created a new protagonist named Takahashi Meijin, who was modeled after the company mascot. He was renamed to Master Higgins in the US version.
Tetris was created when Alexey Pajitnov was working on a problem involving tiling a plane with pentaminos and he looked to tetraminos for insight into the problem.
The name "SEGA" was an abbreviation for "Service Games."
Nintendo was founded in 1889 to produce hanafuda cards.
Ultra Games (Metal Gear, TMNT) was essentially a shell corporation created by Konami to circumvent the publishing limits imposed by Nintendo of America, who at the time limited the number of games published by a third party annually to five.
Punch-Out!! in the arcades was created and developed due to an overabundance of arcade monitors due to the popularity of Donkey Kong. Nintendo had over purchased monitors because of this and needed a way to use them all.
Although there is an expansion port on the underside of an NES, there was never any hardware designed to be used with it.
Atari and it's shell company for publishing NES games Tengen are both named after moves in the board game Go.
Despite it being a Japanese name, Ninja Gaiden (Ninja Side Story) is named Ninja Ryukenden (Legend of the Ninja Dragon Sword) in Japan. The renaming doesn't even make any particular sense, as the game series isn't a side story to anything else!
The theme song for the game Punch-out is the same song used for the Gillette Cavalcade of Sports which was a little sports news show that aired back in the 1950's.
In Zelda 2: The Adventure of Link, there is a character who states "I am Error." This is not an error message, rather it is thought to be a joke but the developers as there is a nearly identical NPC named Bagu, which should have been translated as Bug. Bug and Error are common programming terms.
The bubble enemies in A Link to the Past can be turned into fairies with a sprinkling of magic powder.
There are many differences between the Famicom and NES versions of Castlevania III. The most known among them is the Famicom version utilizes a special mapper chip not available on the NES, enhancing the sound and music. Also, Grant was severely nerfed; in the Famicom version, his standard attack is the same as using the dagger subweapon and can be used from walls and ceilings. The damage dealt by most enemies was also increased in the NES version. Finally, many boss arenas had platforms and floor sections removed to be more difficult and less player friendly in the NES version.
In Final Fantasy III on SNES, the pair of soldiers Terra starts with are named Vicks and Wedge. Vicks is a mistranslation of the name Biggs. Biggs and Wedge are members of the Rogue Squadron, a group of X-Wing pilots in the Star Wars universe. This error was corrected in Final Fantasy VI Advance and other future rereleases. Biggs and Wedge are now a common sight in Final Fantasy games.
Chocobos made their first appearance in Final Fantasy II. This was also the first Final Fantasy game to feature a Cid.
The very first SaGa game was released in the US as The Final Fantasy Legend. The game has little in common with Final Fantasy, outside of some basic RPG structure, but was brought over using the Final Fantasy name as a marketing tool. The same happened with the first Seiken Densetsu (Secret of Mana) game, which was released in the US as Final Fantasy Adventure.
Metal Gear on NES was vastly different from its MSX Home Computer counterpart; the NES opening where 4 soldiers parachute out of a helicopter is not present in the MSX version, the NES version starts with Snake in the jungle whereas the MSX version has him swimming into a room within the first building, and most importantly, in the MSX version if you neutralized enemies by punching them, there was a chance for them to drop rations and ammunition, therefore incentivizing stealth gameplay. That feature is entirely absent in the NES version.
In the Japanese versions of the Castlevania series, the "Belmont" family are the "Belmondo"family.
In the Japanese version of Castlevania 3 (Akumajou Densetsu) damage is calculated based on the enemy that hits the player; in the North American version, damage is scaled based on which level is being played.
In the Japanese version of Castlevania 3 (Akumajou Densetsu) the primary protagonist is named "Ralph Belmondo"; in the North American version, his name is "Trevor Belmont"
In both the instruction manual and the prologue of Super Mario Bros. 2, the player is told from the beginning that the game takes place in the Dream World.
Mega Man 3 was released in an unfinished state and thus was missing large parts of story, and included several debug features that included stopping time, jumping out of pits, and super-jumping. It is also possible to select and use Rush Jet without having acquired it.
The "Bars" in Final Fantasy VI were all changed to "Cafes" in the US release of Final Fantasy III.
SNES puzzle game Tetris Attack, featuring characters from Yoshi's Island, was originally released in Japan with different graphics and characters under the name Panel De Pon.
Secret of Mana got deep into development expecting to utilize the CD add-on for the SNES being developed by Sony. When the CD add-on project was cancelled, much of Secret of Mana had to be truncated to fit into the cartridge format.
While the SuperFX chip was in development by Argonut Software, it was called the "Mathematical, Argonaut, Rotation, & Input/Output" or "MARIO" chip.
A Dragon Ball game was release on NES in Japan and France, but due to the lack of interrest for the franchise in North America at the time, it was released in this zone as Dragon Power, with changed graphics and musics, and references to the original manga removed.
Donkey Kong Country was the first game for which Nintendo of America hired an in-house QA team; to this day, the QA Area of Nintendo of America is called "The Treehouse."
The development codename for the N64 was "Project Reality."
The development codename for the Gamecube was "Project Dolphin"; this is where "Isle Delfino" in Super Mario Sunshine gets its name.
The development codename for the Wii was "Revolution."
The development codename for the Nintendo DS was "Nitro."
The development codename for the Nintendo WiiU was "Cafe."
The development codename for the Nintendo Switch was "Project Next" also known as "The NX."
Dylan Cuthbert (of Argonaut Software) was 17 when he hacked together a GameBoy development kit to see if developing 3-D graphics was possible on the system. He was successful and that success eventually led to him being one of the first third party developers to work directly with Nintendo in their Kyoto headquarters.
Michael Kelbaugh was one of the first game testers Nintendo hired to test Donkey Kong Country and appears in the VHS promotional tape for the game portraying a fictional chef declaring that the Nintendo lunch room will feature Bananas al Gratin, among other banana-themed entrees. He is currently the President and CEO of Retro Studios.
Spartan X for Famicom was developed as a tie-in for the Bruce Lee movie "Game of Death", however the name was changed to "Spartan X" to tie-in with a Jackie Chan film of the same name. It was released for NES as Kung Fu.
The game Adventure by Atari contains what is considered to be the first video game easter egg; the programmer (Warren Robinett) created a secret room with text which read "Created by Warren Robinett."
In Mike Tysons Punch-Out, there is a man in the audience who offers a "tell" of sorts for both Bald Bull and Piston Honda second fights; he is under the bottom rope, on the left half of the screen. If you attack when he ducks, you will knock the fighters out in one punch. This went undiscovered for 29 years.
In The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past there is a secret blue rupee hidden room that is accessible only in a certain way. When you enter the room a message tells you it is Chris Houlihan's room and to please not tell anyone. Chris Houlihan was a winner of an early 1990s Nintendo Power contest.
A Link to the Past was initially being developed as an NES sequel to "The Legend of Zelda", but thanks to other Miyamoto projects and Zelda II, Nintendo ended up pushing it back to the Super Famicom.  We were close to having 3 Zelda games on NES, you can blame Super Mario Bros. 3 for most of the reason this happened.
In Zelda II, the area in Death Mountain where you get the hammer is a lot more significant than you might expect: the entirety of the Zelda 1 map is down there!  In fact, the rock you smash to get the Magic Container is where Ganon's Lair (Level 9) was in the first game!  Look carefully the next time you visit the Hammer Cave!
In both The Legend of Zelda, and Zelda 2: The Adventure of Link, many enemy names differ between the US and Japan versions.  The programmers tended to be a bit naughty with some names, and Nintendo of American changed them a bit: (Darknut, Tartnuc) (Manhandla, Testicart) (Great Palace Knights, Fokkas)
In Zelda 2, if Ganon’s laugh during the Game Over cutscene sounded familiar, that’s because it is. Ganon’s laugh, heard after the player loses all his lives, originated in Punch Out for the NES. The laugh is an altered sound clip from Soda Popinski's laugh after he wins by knockout.
Super Mario World debuted the classic Nintendo character Yoshi. But in fact, Yoshi was conceived and intended to be in Super Mario Bros. 3!  In fact, the only reason he was not in the game was that his sprite made the game harder to develop for, and other hardware limitations dictated his removal.  Super Mario World's design was heavily influenced by Yoshi, as Shigeru Miyamoto loved Mario's loyal dino pal.
Link's Awakening for Game Boy was never a project conceived by Shigeru Miyamoto! Rather, it was a glorified tech demo after-work project by some loyal Nintendo programmers that wanted to prove a concept. Over time, this concept had so much potential that they created a game around it, and Miyamoto was so impressed that he greenlighted the game. Thanks to the passion of these programmers, we got one of Link's greatest adventures!
Everyone knows the travesties that the CD-i Zelda games are. Nintendo would just as soon you forget. But they have only themselves to blame. Unfortunately, their business deal with Philips did much more damage to Nintendo than just these "gems": their business betrayal of Sony (which led to Philips licensing of these characters) actually led to the creation of the Sony PlayStation...and the rest is history.
In Chrono Trigger, the recurring villain Ozzy has two henchmen; Slash and Flea. On the Super Famicom version their names were Vinegar, Soy Sauce, and Mayonnaise.
The Koopalings in Super Mario Bros. 3 are all named after musicians.
The warp whistle in Super Mario Bros. 3 should also look and sound familiar to The Legend of Zelda fans.
In Metroid on NES, the password "NARPAS SWORD0 0000XX XXXXXX" is hard coded into the game data and isn't a true password at all. Rather, it enables debug mode, granting the player infinite energy, infinite missiles and a special version of the ice beam.
The famous type A music in Game Boy Tetris is a traditional Russian folk song called Korobeiniki or sometimes Korobushka.
Goombas were the last enemy added to Super Mario Bros. In the final stages of production, Shigeru Miyamoto decided the game needed a simple enemy that could be defeated with one hit. With very little memory left on the cartridge, developers created what was basically a little brown blob with eyes and one giant eyebrow, and the infamous goomba was born.
In Super Mario Brothers, the clouds and bushes are simple palette swaps of the same sprite. The Goomba is also a modified version of the power/1-up mushroom sprite.
Battle of Olympus was designed by only three people. A husband and wife team did all the programming, art, and story and they hired one more person to do the music.
The character Kirby is named after John Kirby, the lawyer who represented Nintendo of America in a suit brought by Universal Studios over Donkey Kong.
The Double Dragon series started life as a spin-off of the first Kunio-Kun game (released on NES as Renegade).
Kazumi Totaka is a longtime Nintendo composer/sound engineer. He has a melody dubbed "Totaka's Song" which he has hidden in over 20 games. Most recently, it can be found in Animal Crossing: New Horizons and Link's Awakening Remake, both on Switch.
Princess Zelda was named after Zelda Fitzgerald, who was a writer, a painter, and more, as well as the spouse of Francis Scott Fitzgerald.
The late comedian Robin Williams loved The Legend of Zelda so much that he named his daughter Zelda after the game.
"The Last Ninja" on NES is a port of "Last Ninja 2: Back with a Vengeance" which was released on various home computers of the day.
The first game in which the Konami Code appeared was the home port of Gradius for Famicom.
The original Space invaders had no code to change the speed of the invaders as they were killed, rather the game was simply playing at a low framerate as the processor struggled to draw the numerous sprites to the screen. As the player killed them, it lessened the load on the processor causing the game to naturally play faster. The primary gameplay mechanic of this classic game is actually just a performance bug.
The physics of Mario swimming in Super Mario Brothers are the same as flying in Balloon Fight.
In order to save storage space the clouds and bushes in Super Mario Bros. are both the same sprite but with a different color.
The first item one picks up in the original Metroid was called "maru mari" in the manual, which literally translates from Japanese to English as "rolling into a ball". It was renamed to its now-common name of the Morph Ball in future Metroid releases.
In the first Super Mario Bros. game, the Super Mushroom was named the Magic Mushroom.
While the gameplay is identical, Contra on Famicom has extra visual flair not present on the NES release including: animated trees, more intricate waterfall animation and falling snow as well as story interstitials between levels. For the Famicom release, Konami used their internally developed VRC2 board, as opposed to the UNROM board mandated for use by Nintendo of America.
On the Super Famicom release of Chrono Trigger, Crono's element was Holy as opposed to Lightning on the Super Nintendo release; Nintendo of America had a very strict "no religious references" policy in place for many years.
In the EU, Contra was called Probotector and the protagonists were canonically robots in the PAL release due to laws around violence in video games
Nintendo of America sued Galoob, the US distributor of the Game Genie, and lost. Nintendo argued the Game Genie created derivative works of their IP, violating copyright law. The courts found the Game Genie did no such thing and sales continued.
Castlevania 2 was showcased on the cover of the second issue of Nintendo Power. The cover was quite dark, featuring Simon Belmont holding the decapitated head of Dracula. Nintendo received many complaints from parents regarding the image and did not run another similar cover for a long time.
The first game of the EarthBound Series (Mother in JP) was completely localized and set for a US release on NES in 1991. A cartridge of the completed game was found in 1998 and the ROM was uploaded to the internet as EarthBound Zero. The game was later officially released on the Wii U Virtual Console service as EarthBound Beginnings.
The controller input ports on a Sony Playstation are very similar in design to those of the Super Nintendo. It is thought Sony based their controller design off of the Super Nintendo due to their experience with the hardware during the famously failed "Nintendo Playstation" partnership.
Dee Jay from the Street Fighter 2 games had pants originally said MANTIS but since his right sprite is merely a mirror image of his left, the "N" and "S" would be reversed.  Due to this MANTIS was changed to MAXIMUM so that it would read the same whether the sprite was mirrored or not.
The Super Mario 3 World 8 'hands' have a 50% of pulling you into each of the three levels meaning a 1/8 chance to get through with 'no hands.'